---
title: Contextual Engine
layout: default
---
#Contextual Engine

##CONTEXTS

The contextual engine is the center of ContextHub, adding dynamic capabilities to events generated by your apps through context rules. The contextual engine aims to solve the problem of allowing developers to change how their app behaves based on events generated by a device to create a more seamless experience for end users. Through events, feeds, and context rules, you'll be able to build more quickly modern, contextually-aware applications your users will enjoy.

**[Events](/docs/dev-portal/events)** are data objects triggered by contextual objects and feeds which are passed to context rules to create smarter actions that occur within your application. Events include general data about the device that generated it as well as information specific to that event. Events form the backbone of everything that happens in ContextHub.

**[Feeds](/docs/dev-portal/feeds)** are specially crafted, application-specific URLs generated by ContextHub that let you trigger your own custom events from any web browser, JavaScript script, Arduino, Raspberry Pi, or other IoT device. Feeds are perfect for integrating new platforms not yet directly supported by our SDKs into your own applications.

**[Context Rules](/docs/dev-portal/context-rules)** are small snippets of JavaScript evaluated when an event is triggered that let you change how your app responds through the same contextual elements like beacons and geofences you are already using through our device SDK. These context rules, driven by events generated by devices, let you perform complex actions including sending push notification, storing data in vault, sending and receiving http requests, and logging console data to your server logs. 

<br />
<br />