---
title: Awareness
layout: default
---
# Awareness

##Context Rule Sample App

<div class="text-center">
  {% include awareness_thumbs.html %}
</div>

Modern smartphones and devices are the new normal today, generating a sea of data just waiting to be harnessed and interpreted. But there needs to be some intelligence behind acting on that data so your apps provide the best experience to your customers. Context rules serve as ContextHub's solution to this problem, allowing you as a developer to write simple but powerful JavaScript code separate from your application that gives your application a dynamic feel that your user's may never see but will certainly experience.  

Awareness is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the custom event and context rule features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal respectively. As a developer, you will learn how to trigger your own custom events as well as handle events within context rules in the ContextHub developer portal. Send pusn notifications, access vault records, create geofences, or fire webhooks, context rules let you customize your application in real-time, giving you increased flexibilty as a developer with very little time investment. ContextHub takes care processing events generated by devices as well as triggering and evaluating context rules so that you can perform powerful and complex actions based on those same events.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/awareness) off of GitHub, follow along, and start integrating context rules into your apps and make them dynamic and contextually aware!

<br />
<br />