---
title: Developer Portal
layout: default
group: "admin"
---


# Developer Portal

The ContextHub Developer Portal allows you to manage and monitor the activity your ContextHub applications from the web. As a developer, you have the ability to CRUD contextual objects, inspect events, create and execute contextual rules and more all in a single place.

<a name="Beacons" data-magellan-destination="Beacons"></a>

## Beacons

The beacon page manages all of the beacons present in your application. Individual beacons or beacon regions can be added through the portal by entering a required UUID, and optional major/minor value (0-65535).
You can add one or more tags to a beacon in addition to its primary attributes. These tags are what devices subscribe to to be notified when changes have been made on the server. Changes made here are "live" and are pushed to iOS and Android client apps if push notifications have been properly enabled.

<a name="Geofences" data-magellan-destination="Geofences"></a>

## Geofences

The geofence page manages all of the geofences present in your application. Individiual geofences can be added through the portal either with an address or directly with latitude/longitude.
You can add one or more tags to a geofence in addition to its primary attributes. These tags are what devices subscribe to to be notified when changes have been made on the server. Changes made here are "live" and are pushed to iOS and Android client apps if push notifications have been properly enabled.


<a name="Events" data-magellan-destination="Events"></a>

## Events

Events are data objects triggered by contextual objects and feeds which are passed to context rules to create smarter actions that occur within your application. Events include general data about the device that generated it as well as information specific to that event. Events form the backbone of everything that happens in ContextHub.


<a name="Contexts" data-magellan-destination="Contexts"></a>

## Contexts

Context rules are small snippets of JavaScript evaluated when an event is triggered that let you change how your app responds through the same contextual elements like beacons and geofences you are already using through our device SDK. These context rules, driven by events generated by devices, let you perform complex actions including sending push notification, storing data in vault, sending http requests, and logging console data to your server logs.

<a name="Vault" data-magellan-destination="Vault"></a>

## Vault

Vault contains all of the distributed data objects present in ContextHub. These objects are stored in a JSON format, which gives you the ability to store numbers, strings, arrays, and nested dictionaries. All vault items also contain tags, which allow for devices to subscribe to tags and be instantly notified via push if any items are created, updated, or deleted with a specific tag.

<a name="Devices" data-magellan-destination="Devices"></a>

## Devices

Devices lists all of your devices currently present in your application. Clicking on a device lists specific information about the device, including type, OS version, push enablement, alias, tags, and more. The "last_profile" of a device describes the latest contextual data given to ContextHub the last time an event was sent from a device.


<a name="Analytics" data-magellan-destination="Analytics"></a>

## Analytics

Analytics lets you peer into the data generated by your ContextHub application so you can gain new insights into what your application is doing. You can modify the timespan which the charts cover and use the tag search box to narrow down your results to specific devices.

<a name="Dashboard" data-magellan-destination="Dashboard"></a>

### Dashboard

The dashboard page gives you access to several pre-defined charts which describe how your application is growing and what kind of activity is generating. There are charts for new devices, device activity, device type, events and errors.

<a name="Custom" data-magellan-destination="Custom"></a>

### Custom

Custom analytics let you search for the frequency of the occurence of a particular string in your logs. If you comma-separate your search terms, you can build charts with multiple values tracked at the same time so you can compare them relative to each other.


<a name="Triggers" data-magellan-destination="Triggers"></a>

## Triggers

Triggers are specially crafted, application-specific URLs generated by ContextHub that let you trigger your own custom events from any web browser, JavaScript script, Arduino, Raspberry Pi, or other IoT device. Triggers are perfect for integrating new platforms not yet directly supported by our SDKs into your own applications.

<a name="Settings" data-magellan-destination="Settings"></a>

## Settings

Settings contains two subsections for setting up push notifications on iOS and Android as well as modifying which collaborators are allowed access to your ContextHub application in the developer portal.

<a name="PushServices" data-magellan-destination="PushServices"></a>

### Push Services

Push Services is the place to put your Apple sandbox/production certifications and Google Cloud Messaging key to enable push notifications to work correctly on both platforms. "Sandbox" is the push environment used when testing your application in iOS and is completely different from "Production" in the tokens generated and pushes received from a device.

<a name="Collaborators" data-magellan-destination="Collaborators"></a>

### Collaborators

The collaborators subsection allows you to manage additional people who need access to your ContextHub application in the developer portal. Here, you are able to invite additional collaborators based on their email address, remove collaborators, or change ownership of the application to a different user.

<a name="Logs" data-magellan-destination="Logs"></a>

## Logs

The logs subsection contains the log page which contains a list of the last 1000 log messages retained in your application. These log messages are generated from a variety of different places; the ContextHub mobile SDKs, contextual rules, and REST API endpoint. You have the option to filter by different types, whether they are resource updates, custom messages, errors, or webhook requests.

Note: High-frequency logging of messages in a short period of time do not have a guaranteed order of being saved.
