---
title: Context Rules
layout: default
---
#Contextual Engine

##CONTEXT RULE OBJECTS

Context rule objects are available in context rules and allow you to interact with different elements to create a more dynamic application experience for your users. Each object has a variety of methods which closely mimics those available through the SDK such that context rules are a first-class citizen when interacting with your application. This allows you to create applications which can change their functionality without updating the code on a user's device, adding more flexibility to your toolbelt when creating new, custom application experiences.

### Console
The console object allows you to easily save messages in a context rule to the ContextHub logs to be viewed later. These logs contain the last 100 messages and can be filtered based on user logs (`console.log` and `CCHLog`), webhook logs, resource logs (CRUD events of elements), and errors. 

Note: Logs are not 100% guaranteed to appear in the order they are saved.

{% gist CHLibrarian/a6d028eeeb52fa9ba007 %}
<br />

### Beacon

The **[beacon](/docs/dev-portal/context-rules/beacon)** object allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete beacons in a context rule. Creating, updating, or deleting a beacon will trigger push notifications to be sent to devices who have subscribed to updates based on the tag of that beacon.

### Geofence

The **[geofence](/docs/dev-portal/context-rules/geofence)** object allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete beacons in a context rule. Creating, updating, or deleting a geofence will trigger push notifications to be sent to devices who have subscribed to updates based on the tag of that geofence.

### Push

The **[push](/docs/dev-portal/context-rules/push)** object allows you to send foreground and background notifications to devices in a context rule. You have the option of sending notifications to devices based on their token, device id, alias, or one of many tags they may have. By allowing for notifications to be sent based on different groups, you can abstract away some of the complexity of sending push messages to devices and focus more on the core logic of your application.

### Vault
The **[vault](/docs/dev-portal/context-rules/vault)** object allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete vault items in a context rule. Creating, updating, or deleting vault items will trigger push notifications to be sent to devices who have subscribed to updates based on the tag of that vault item. Vault can be used to give state to events generated by devices and processed by context rules, so that rules can provide smarter intelligence in your application.

### HTTP
The **[HTTP](/docs/dev-portal/context-rules/http)** object allows you to fire webhooks to other services in a context rule. This allows you to communicate with external servers inside ContextHub to provide two-way communication with devices that have generated events such as IoT-like devices like the Raspberry Pi, Arduino, or Electric Imp. 

Note: While HTTP objects can be fired, you do not get the response back in the context rule. Instead the HTTP status code is logged in the logs for you to check.