---
title: 
layout: default
---

# SAMPLES

<a name="iOS"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS"></a>

## iOS

<a name="iOS-hellocontexthub"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS-hellocontexthub"></a>

### Hello ContextHub

<div class="text-center photos">
  {% include hello_contexthub_thumbs.html %}
</div>

Today's world is full of devices and sensors just waiting to be tapped into. Meaningful events happen all the time, when we get home from work, approach an interesting painting, or visit our favorite coffee shop. ContextHub takes those meaningful events in our lives and transforms them into powerful triggers your apps can respond to turn apps into experiences for your end users.

Hello ContextHub is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal. As a developer, you will learn the relationship between devices triggering events on the server by setting up geofences on a map. ContextHub takes care of setting up and monitoring geofences to generate events that the server can listen and respond to and then save those events in a vault to be accessed later.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/hello-contexthub){:target="_blank"} off of GitHub, follow along, and welcome to the world of ContextHub!

<a name="iOS-awareness"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS-awareness"></a>

### Awareness (Contexts)

<div class="text-center photos">
  {% include awareness_thumbs.html %}
</div>

Modern smartphones and devices are the new normal today, generating a sea of data just waiting to be harnessed and interpreted. But there needs to be some intelligence behind acting on that data so your apps provide the best experience to your customers. Context rules serve as ContextHub's solution to this problem, allowing you as a developer to write simple but powerful JavaScript code separate from your application that gives your application a dynamic feel that your user's may never see but will certainly experience.  

Awareness is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the custom event and context rule features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal respectively. As a developer, you will learn how to trigger your own custom events as well as handle events within context rules in the ContextHub developer portal. Send pusn notifications, access vault records, create geofences, or fire webhooks, context rules let you customize your application in real-time, giving you increased flexibilty as a developer with very little time investment. ContextHub takes care processing events generated by devices as well as triggering and evaluating context rules so that you can perform powerful and complex actions based on those same events.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/awareness){:target="_blank"} off of GitHub, follow along, and start integrating context rules into your apps and make them dynamic and contextually aware!

<a name="iOS-detectme"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS-detectme"></a>

### Detect Me (Beacons)

<div class="text-center photos">
  {% include detect-me_thumbs.html %}
</div>

In 2013 at WWDC with iOS 7, Apple introduced the world to iBeacons, low-power Bluetooth 4.0 devices that help to give contextual location information to smartphones in areas where GPS, WiFi, and cellular tower triangulation could not pinpoint a user's exact location. This is extraordinarily helpful in indooor locations with profound impact in retail and commercial markets.

Detect Me is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the beacon features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal. As a developer, you will learn how to create, retrieve, update, and delete beacons as well as detect them and their proximity in only a few lines of code. ContextHub takes care of setting up and monitoring beacons to generate events that the server can listen and respond to and then save those events in a vault to be accessed later.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/detect-me){:target="_blank"} off of GitHub, follow along, and start integrating beacons into your apps and make them contextually aware!

<a name="iOS-boundaries"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS-boundaries"></a>

### Boundaries (Geofences)

<div class="text-center photos">
  {% include boundaries_thumbs.html %}
</div>

Positional awareness is quickly going from a nifty feature to a must have. Users expect more out their devices each and every day with location being a prime example of a data point that's ready to be taken advantage of. Geofences allow your application to be notified when a device enters or exits an area of interest so you can provide relevant data to your users right when they need it.

Boundaries is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the geofences features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal. As a developer, you will learn how to create, retrieve, update, and delete geofences as well as handle events in only a few lines of code. ContextHub takes care of setting up and monitoring geofences to generate events that the server can listen and respond to and then save those events in a vault to be accessed later.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/boundaries){:target="_blank"} off of GitHub, follow along, and start integrating geofences into your apps and make them contextually aware!

<a name="iOS-notifyme"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS-notifyme"></a>

### Notify Me (Push)

<div class="text-center photos">
  {% include notify-me_thumbs.html %}
</div>

Push notifications have long been a way to increase user engagement in your applications ever since they were introduced in iPhone OS 3.0 in 2009. However in 2013, iOS 7 brought a new level of functionality with background notifications which allow developers to send notifications that wake up their apps briefly to do additional processing that typically would have been done at first load. This makes apps feel more responsive to the user and enables a new class of applications that use push as a foundation to communicate with a user without a user's interaction.

Notify Me is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the push features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal. As a developer, you will learn how to register, send, and receive foreground and background push notifications to either devices, aliases, or tags in only a few lines of code. ContextHub takes care of translating each of those items to a push token which APNS needs to send the message to the correct device.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/notify-me){:target="_blank"} off of GitHub, follow along, and start integrating push to bring a new level of smartness to your apps!

<a name="iOS-storage"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="iOS-storage"></a>

### Storage (Vault)

<div class="text-center photos">
  {% include storage_thumbs.html %}
</div>

Cloud storage of data can be difficult. When dealing with an ever expanding world of devices, keeping track of what's going in involves more than simply storing data on a single device for retrieval later. Especially with the coming "Internet of Things" revolution, maintaining state in your contextual apps allows you to build smarter rules that know not just what happened right now, but what happened 30 minutes or a day ago. So instead of asking "is my light on now?", we can save data saying "my light was on 5 minutes ago."

Storage is the showcase sample app that introduces you to the vault features of the ContextHub iOS SDK and developer portal. As a developer, you will learn how to create, retrieve, update, and delete vault items in only a few lines of code. ContextHub allows you to store small amounts of data on the server which can be accessed by all devices without starting up your own database server.

Grab the [source](https://github.com/contexthub/storage){:target="_blank"} off of GitHub, follow along, and start integrating vault into your apps and make your apps more contextually aware!

<a name="Android"></a>
<a data-magellan-destination="Android"></a>




## Android

### Coming soon!
